doc: matter: add overview pages from next (#8492)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_matter_overview_architecture.rst

The layer operates regardless of the business logic, and so for example it is identical for each door lock type of device.

.. figure:: images/matter_components_DM.svg
   :alt: Data Model layer overview

   Data Model layer overview

Nodes
   Each device is composed of one or more nodes, which are complete implementations of a Matter application functionality on a single stack.
   Nodes are identifiable with a unique network address on a single network.
   They can communicate directly with other nodes in the network.

Endpoints
   Each node is composed of one or more endpoints, which contain feature sets of single device functionalities.
   For example, in a voice-controlled door lock device, one endpoint could include the feature set for operating the bolt, while the other endpoint could include the feature set for handling a temperature sensor.

   .. note::
      Endpoint 0 is always reserved for Matter's Utility Clusters.
      This is the only mandatory endpoint for each Matter device.

Clusters
   Endpoints are composed of one or more clusters, which group attributes, commands and events that together make up each single feature in a set.

>    For example, in an endpoint for operating a door bolt, one cluster could group attributes for moving the bolt to open or closed position, while other could group attributes for controlling how fast the bolt would move.

Reviewer: Generally door lock is not the easiest example to present variety of configurations as its all functionality is described by a single cluster. I'm not sure this how fast bolt will move is a real life attribute example for door lock, but maybe something like this could be better?
```suggestion
   For example, in an endpoint for operating a door bolt, one cluster could group attributes for moving the bolt to open or closed position, while other could group attributes for controlling alarms in case of opening the door in unauthorized way.
```

   Clusters can be of the following types:

   * Server -- responsible for holding values for Attributes, Commands, and Events.
   * Client -- responsible for performing interactions with other Server Clusters.

   The supported Matter application clusters are described in the Application Clusters specification, available to the `Connectivity Standards Alliance`_ members.
   Sets of clusters on one or more endpoint can form a :ref:`device type <ug_matter_device_types>`, that is an officially defined collection of requirements that is conformant with the Device Library specification.

Attributes
   Attributes are data entities that represent a physical quantity or state.
   They are stored in the Matter device's memory, but can also be calculated dynamically on demand.

Commands
   Commands are actions that can be used to trigger some behavior on other devices.

>    For example, they can be used to request a Matter node to do something, communicate attribute data or modify some attributes.

Reviewer: That's not true, modifying attributes is done by write interaction on a interaction model level and not by a data model command. The first sentence describes all commands functionality, so maybe let's give another door lock example?
```suggestion
   For example, in a door lock device the lock door command will be used to trigger such action on a physical device.
```

Events

>    Events are a type of attributes that communicate device state changes.

Reviewer 2: The unique feature of events is that you can read multiple historical records for the same event. E.g. if you have a HardwareFault event, and it happens that several hardware faults occur, then if you read the event you will receive a list of events (the count depends on the size of the event buffer). On the other hand, if you read an attribute, you will always receive the current value of that attribute. Therefore, events != reportable attributes and subscribing to an event is not the same as subscribing to an attribute change. Having said that, I'm not sure if saying that an event is a type of attribute is correct, but I'm not sure who came up with that definition and based on which sources :). To me they are similar to attributes but they don't store historical occurrences of a certain... event instead of the current value.

>    Events are a type of attributes that communicate device state changes.

Reviewer 3: @Damian-Nordic, hanks for the clarification. So maybe we can simply skip the mention about "type of attributes" and have sth like:

```suggestion
   Events are a mechanism that communicates device state changes.
```
